
FOR WINDOWS ONLY----------

DATABASE PART
-------------

1- Download and install mongoDB in your computer


2- Start mongoDB server (in one windows powershell) and mongo Shell (in another windows powershell)


3- By default two databases will be present. We have to create our


4- To create database--

	don't use inverted commas in shell it is added just for clarification

	a)- Run command "use quotes" to create a database with name 'quotes'(mind the plural form it's important)
	b)- Run command "db.quotes.insertOne({date_created:"",author:"XYZ",quote_type:"abc",content:"this is a random text"})"
	
	--it will create one entry in collection.


5- A saparate file named "database entries" is provided with coded entries to insert in collection copy paste it in mongo shell. It will add upto 20 entries 
   in database.


NOW TO RUN THE BACK-END TASK WEBSITE
------------------------------------

INFO:- The whole project is devided into to parts "client" & "server" apart from the project root directory


PRE-REQUESITES-- NODE DEVELOPEMENT ENVIRONMENT CONFIGURED PROPERLY

1- The root directory contains files- package.json, package-lock.json, README.md and  .git (hidden)

2- To install node dependencies of project open windows powershell in root directory.

	a)- in root directory run command "npm install" in powershell
		it will take some time to install dependencies.

	b)- change directory to client and run command "npm install"
		it will install dependencies of client side. wait until it completes..

	c)- change directory to 'server' run "npm install" to install server-side dependencies
		wait until it completes.

	now the project is ready to be served on localhost.


3- Go back to root directory in powershell

make sure the mongoDB server is running and run command "npm start"

wait until both servers run properly...

client side react node server and express server... react server takes time wait until it completes 

when powershell show some green text(possibly) saying something like visit to localhost then it is completed

open browser and navigate.



































































































































